.TH DPKG-CHECKDEPS.RB 1 "Debian Utilities" "DEBIAN" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
dpkg-checkdeps.rb \- Utility to check deb dependency
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdpkg-checkdeps.rb\fP [\fIopts\fP] \fIdebfile\fP ...
.br
\fBdpkg-checkdeps.rb\fP [\fIopts\fP] \fB\-\-from\fP \fIpackages\fP \fIpkgname\fP...
.br
\fBdpkg-checkdeps.rb\fP [\fIopts\fP] \fB\-\-from\fP \fB\-\-all\fP
.br
\fBdpkg-checkdeps.rb\fP [\fIopts\fP] \fB\-\-check\fP \fIpkgname\fP... 
.br
\fIopts\fP: \fB\-\-to\fP \fIpackages\fP
       \fB\-\-arch\fP \fIarch\fP
       \fB\-\-verbose\fP
       \fB\-q\fP
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dpkg-checkdeps.rb
checks deb dependency problems when specified deb packages are
installed in the target packages list.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-t " packages-file"
.TP
.BI \-\-to " packages-file"
.PD
Specify target \fIpackages-file\fP.  If this option is used multiple times,
packages lists are appended.  If no \fB-t\fP option specified,
default is current installed packages list, that is, /var/lib/dpkg/status.
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-f " packages-file"
.TP
.BI \-\-from " packages-file"
.PD
Specify source \fIpackages-file\fP.  If this option is used multiple times,
packages lists are appended.  If you use this option, you can select packages
by \fIpackage-name\fP, or all of them by \fB\-\-all\fP option.
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-A
.TP
.B \-\-all
.PD
Select all packages in source \fIpackages-file\fP.  You must use this option
with \fB\-\-from\fP option.
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-a " arch"
.TP
.BI \-\-arch " arch"
.PD
Specify acceptable \fIarch\fP in \fIpackages-file\fP.  Default is 
installation_architecture of dpkg.
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-c
.TP
.B \-\-check
.PD
Check selected packages are satisfied by all packages in target
\fIpackages\fP.
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-v
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
.PD
Verbose mode
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-h
.TP
.BI \-\-help
.PD
Display some help.
.SH EXAMPLES

  % dpkg-checkdeps.rb \-\-arch alpha \
	\-\-to '*/binary-$ARCH/Packages' \
	\-\-from ../proposed-updates/Packages' \-\-all

  % dpkg-checkdeps.rb \-\-to '*/binary-$ARCH/Packages' \-\-check libc6

.SH BUGS

There are probably tons of bugs in this program.

This checks only depends, recommends and suggests, doesn't check 
pre-depends and conflicts, yet.

This program comes with no warranties.  If running this program
causes fire and brimstone to rain down upon the earth, you will be
on our own.

.SH AUTHOR
Fumitoshi UKAI <ukai@debian.or.jp>.



