.TH DPKG-RUBY 1 "Debian Utilities" "DEBIAN" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
dpkg-ruby \- Utility to read a dpkg style db file, dpkg-awk clone
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdpkg-ruby\fP [\fB(\-f|\-\-file) \fIfilename\fP] [\fB(\-d|\-\-debug) \fI##\fP] [\fB(\-s|\-\-sort) \fIlist\fP] [\fB(\-n|\-\-numeric) \fIlist\fP] [\fB(\-rs|\-\-rec_sep) \fI??\fP] '\fI<fieldname>:<regex>\fP' ... \-\- \fI<out_fieldname>\fP ..
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I dpkg-ruby
Parses a dpkg status file(or other similarly formated file) and
outputs the resulting records.  It can use regex on the field
values to limit the returned records, and it can also be told
which fields to output.  As another option, it can sort the
matched fields.
.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-f " filename"
.TP
.BI \-\-file " filename"
.PD
The file to parse.  The default is /var/lib/dpkg/status.
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-d " [#]"
.TP
.BI \-\-debug " [#]"
.PD
Each time this is specified, it increased the debug level.
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-s " field(s)"
.TP
.BI \-\-sort " field(s)"
.PD
A space or comma separated list of fields to sort on.
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-n " field(s)"
.TP
.BI \-\-numeric " field(s)"
.PD
A space or comma separated list of fields that should be
interpreted as numeric in value.
.TP
.PD 0
.BI \-rs " ??"
.TP
.BI \-\-rec_sep " ??"
.PD
Output this string at the end of each output paragraph.
.\" .TP
.\" .PD 0
.\" .I -of ??
.\" .TP
.\" .I --outform ??
.\" .PD
.\" Specify the outform that dpkg-ruby should use.  Current
.\" formats are normal(the old, tried and true style), and
.\" xml.
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-h
.TP
.B \-\-help
.PD
Display some help.
.TP
.I fieldname
The fields from the file, that are matched with the regex given.
The \fIfieldname\fPs are case insensitive.
.TP
.I out_fieldname
The fields from the file, that are outputted for each record.
If the first field listed is begins with
.IR ^ ,
then the list that follows are fields
.I NOT
to be outputted.
.SH BUGS

Be warned that the author has only a shallow understanding of the 
dpkg packaging system, so there are probably tons of bugs in this
program.

This program comes with no warranties.  If running this program
causes fire and brimstone to rain down upon the earth, you will be
on our own.

This program accesses the dpkg database directly in places, querying 
for data that cannot be gotten via dpkg.

.SH AUTHOR
Fumitoshi UKAI <ukai@debian.or.jp>.
This manual page are based on (or almost copy from :) dpkg-awk(1) manual
written by Adam Heath <doogie@debian.org>



